As human beings, we naturally assess threats every single day.
Let's say you're near the shore at a beach and you come across a snake,
a bee, and a jellyfish.
Now, you may consider these threats as each of them can harm you.
But which threat should you care about the most?
Which poses the greatest risk?
You would start to take into consideration several different factors,
like what's the worst outcome if each attacks you?
Now, if you get stung by a bee,
is that worse than being bitten by a snake?
What if you learned that the snake is actually not venomous,
but you are allergic to bee stings?
Does that make a difference?
So here are some things that you want to consider.
Which threat should you be most concerned about?
How can you mitigate the risk?
For example, by staying out of the water,
you avoid the threat of the jellyfish altogether.
This is threat assessment.
You do it every day.